I will come back in this with you will talk in a bit more about lammed as I'm going to give you a few
more examples just to give you a bit more experience about lambdas and about programming in general
.
First things first I'm going to clean up this code a bit.
So just to remove some unnecessary things from there I'm going to go back to our code.
Are they closer to the end of the last video and just go over it once more.
What we've got here is we've created an older method which takes in a set of values an array a list
and a check function which is a lambda expression or a function that we've defined elsewhere.
And then we use English comprehension create a new list where the values in the list are each of the
values in the original list.
If the check function is true for that specific value down here we can hold that value with the list
with numbers from 1 to 5 and the lambda expression was.
X is not equal to 5 for numbers 1 to 4.
They were not equal to 5.
So they were included in the final list but the number 5 is equal to 5.
So this is not true which means it was not included.
Finally we printed that and we saw the numbers 1 2 4 come out and we can see.
Now I wanted to mention a special Python method called the filter method here as a sort of guest of
honor.
In other programming languages that do not have list comprehension they will sometimes use the filter
method the filter method does exactly the same as this list comprehension does.
But instead of having the values then the iteration.
And finally the check the filter method has to check first and then the values.
And it does exactly the same thing.
If we do return a list of that if we return a list of the filtered values we can't the same as our list
comprehension.
And as you can see down there.
So what this is doing is it's filtering using the check function over the set of values passed in the
second parameters the check is the first parameter the values.
The second parameter and that returns a filter object which we then can convert to a list.
And that just time gives us a list of values.
OK.
So these two are the same thing but normally in python we use list comprehension it's more pythonic
than Python and through she asks I think it's more readable.
So if you agree and you want to use list comprehension instead then that's what you should do.
It's more pythonic thing to do but in other programming languages and if you're working with people
who come from other backgrounds sometimes using the filter method may be more beneficial for everybody
.
So just take that into account remember these two are identical and we normally use less comprehension
but either is fine.
OK.
Now that we have the old method which is essentially just calling the filter method really.
But now that we've gone that we can use that to learn a bit more about things that we can do using lambda
functions sort of things that might need to be useful in some instances for example especially useful
one might be a method to remove numbers from a string
like so we have a method called remove numbers takes in a value.
And what this method is going to do is going to return the result of the ultimate.
And for that value the lambda function is going to be one that you are going to be programming now.
So what we want to do is to iterate over each of the values which we're doing here and only include
the value in the list.
If it is not a number and that way we will remove the numbers.
So we want this lambda function to check whether X is a number or not.
The way we want to do with the way we want it to work is we want to return true if x is not a number
and we want to return false if x is a number.
So there's lambda function should return whether X is not a number.
Go ahead and post the video and try that.
And please take your time.
Go on the internet go on Google find how to do it by doing it yourself and learning it like that is
going to stick a lot better and then come back and we'll go over it and I'll go over how I did it and
why
well kids are hopefully you got that what we are going to do is check that X is not a number.
So we're going to do x not in.
And then in four and in range 10.
So what this does is first of all we create a new list.
This list has in four and in range 10.
So what range 10 does is it gives us the values from 0 to 9 and then we create a list using those values
.
So we have a list of numbers from 0 to 9 and then we're returning that X is not inside to that list
So it will return true if x is not one of the digits between 0 9 it will return false if X is one of
the deeds and that's all we want because we want to make sure that the values are only included if x
is not one of the numbers.
However remember that and for n in range 10 is going to return a list of integers and not of strings
.
So normally we will want to convert this to a string.
And finally we can print something like hell 5 low but we want to remove the numbers from it or remove
numbers like so.
And what this will do is remove the numbers from the string here which gets passed in as value it goes
into the altar method alongside this function and this function is going to only return true if each
of the characters is a set each string which actually not a digit.
So when we check that here in the list comprehension we are going to only include the values that pass
the check and the junkie's that X is not a digit.
Please do pause the video and take your time to think about this.
Make sure you understand what's going on and think like the computer.
What is going to happen with age.
Where is it going to get checked.
What does the check method do understand every little step that you can think of.
But of course if anything does not make sense or you have any questions please do ask away as I'm always
here to help.
Let's run this.
And as you can see we do get the hello word even though it's a list because this thing here builds the
list and it is without the five.
Also remember that for vowel in values is going to be iterating over each of the characters of the string
.
Strings are not lists but they are also iterable You can also iterate over them using a for loop.
Another potentially interesting method could be one to skip a certain letter.
And what this will do is skip one of the letters in our string so it will return old and then value
and then the lambda expression.
The way I'm going to call this method is Skip letter.
Hello E for example.
And what I expect to come out is H L L O with Albert E.
So I expect you to be skipped.
So another question is What do you think the lambda function is going to have to be in order to skip
the E.
Hopefully you got that.
The lambda expression is going to be X is not equal to B
but instead of sticking to e only Let's use the letter parameter which in our case is e.
But it could be anything else.
Now we're going to run this.
And as you can see we get H L L O without the E which is what we wanted.
So now we've learned about a couple of things we've learned about the filter method and we've also looked
at a couple more examples on how we can use lambda expression how we can build them to do certain number
of things such as removing numbers skipping letters.
We can do things like them potentially skipping symbols in a string or removing full stops or removing
commas.
You know we can do all sorts of things with these.
But the most important thing is to remember just that lambda functions can be passed from one function
to another as parameters and arguments and that can be sometimes really useful and we're going to be
looking at exactly when it can be really useful.
With more examples in the next figure we're going to be looking at a bit more of the sort of example
in the next video instead of sticking to the filter function which is only used to remove values.
We're going to look at another function which is sometimes more useful.
So I won't say any more.
I'll see you in the very next video.
Well we're going to be looking at another set of examples and hopefully you'll find that very interesting
as well.
I'll see you in the next one.